it has been slammed as a PR stunt to
distract from recent allegations of
anti-Semitism against billionaire
businessman Elon Musk and his platform X
formerly known as Twitter on Monday the
world's richest man toured one of the
sites devastated by the Hamas terrorist
attack on a visit to Israel musk visited
a kibuts with Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin and Yahoo and discussed
anti-semitic content on his social media
platform musk also held on the potential
use of a starlink satellite technology
for communications access in Gaza Israel
said musk had agreed starlink could only
be used in the territory with Israeli
government approval do
of and let's take a closer look now at
this topic with Doug mie he's the
director of Internet analysis at the
monitoring company K take welcome Doug
there seems to be a deal now but Israel
was not at all pleased about musk's
initial offer to bring starlink to Gaza
what were they concerned
about so just taking a step back uh with
how how does a uh a satellite service
come uh come active in a country the
every country their government has a
telecomunications regulator that offers
uh that requires a license uh for a
country to operate for a satellite
service to operate there and um you know
as of October 7th uh sarlink did not
have a a license to operate in Israel
I'm not where they were in the process
they were probably pursuing it um but uh
I guess this would FastTrack uh an
authorization for them to use it from a
technical standpoint there's no reason
why if someone had a Ground Terminal uh
they wouldn't be able to get the service
but as far as the the caution I think
you know from the LA from the last
couple of months I think we've learned a
couple things one is that the Israelis
you know have cut off service to Gaza uh
for extended periods of time uh that
have coincided with IDF operations in
Gaza so so I think from the Israeli
point of view they look at internet
service as something that they um want
to control as part of uh their uh their
military operation against Hamas now mus
claims that starlink can help restore
communication with eight organizations
for example in Gaza what would be the
hurdles now to get the system to work
there so really boil down to just
getting them uh the ground terminals
because as I said the the satellites the
way this works so it's a low earth orbit
constellation of thousands of satellites
uh that are flying overhead all of us at
any given moment uh they're going over
Gaza and they have been uh whether it
now whether they operate there or not is
uh becomes a regulatory matter or you
know do they have a license to operate
it sounds like they're going to get that
license so then it's just a matter of uh
getting terminals in uh that can connect
they have to you know no longer black uh
Blacklist or block out uh that geography
from service and uh obviously those
terminals need electricity which is
sometimes hard to come by in in with
that obstacle but the number one thing
probably at this point is just to get uh
ground terminals uh the antennas the
dishes into Gaza the Israeli government
has said that they are concerned about
Starling being misused what could that
look
like so um I think uh yeah they they
made a comment about how they would like
to tightly control who has got uh uh
service and you know devices like these
uh can be moved uh so something could uh
be uh you know moved from Israel into
Gaza or elsewhere we saw that in when
Isis invaded and took over parts of uh
Syria and Iraq and they were buying
terminals in Turkey this is before the
days of starlink and they were able to
uh carry those over the border and
operate those um uh in in Iraq and Syria
but I think you know starlink has plays
a critical role in the conflict in
Ukraine so we can see you know its
application in a military setting both
for uh battle field uh Communications
for coordinating military activities as
well as uh uh coordinating um drone
surveillance and drone attacks those
have been um uh performed with the aid
of the Starling service those internet
and infrastructure expert Doug madori
thank you so
much